README.md, before:

<img src="https://github.com/echasnovski/media/blob/main/mini.nvim/logo/logo_map.png" style="width: 100%">

<!-- badges: start -->
[![GitHub license](https://badgen.net/github/license/echasnovski/mini.nvim)](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/LICENSE)
<!-- badges: end -->

### Window with buffer text overview, scrollbar, and highlights

See more details in [Features](#features) and [help file](doc/mini-map.txt).

---

⦿ This is a part of [mini.nvim](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim) library. Please use [this link](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/README.md) if you want to mention this module.

⦿ All contributions (issues, pull requests, discussions, etc.) are done inside of 'mini.nvim'.

⦿ See the repository page to learn about common design principles and configuration recipes.

---

If you want to help this project grow but don't know where to start, check out [contributing guides of 'mini.nvim'](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) or leave a Github star for 'mini.nvim' project and/or any its standalone Git repositories.

## Demo

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24854248/195806215-10e05020-50b7-4bee-9447-ee5af3e971ec.mp4

## Features

- Show and manage special floating window displaying automatically updated overview of current buffer text. Window takes up whole height of Neovim instance and is fixed to a left/right side. Map content is computed by taking all current lines, converting it to binary whitespace/non-whitespace mask, rescaling to appropriate dimensions, and converting back to strings consisting from special encoding symbols. All this is done **very fast** and **asynchronously**.

    See `:h MiniMap.open()`, `:h MiniMap.refresh()`, `:h MiniMap.close()`, `:h MiniMap.toggle()`, `:h MiniMap.toggle_side()`.

    For a general overview and tips, see `:h mini.map-usage`.

- Show scrollbar next to map content. It represents current line and view (top and bottom visible lines). Can be the only thing shown, making map window a "pure scrollbar".

- Highlight map lines representing certain data in current buffer. This is done via extensible set of callables, called integrations. There are pre-built generators for common integrations:
    - Builtin search.
    - Builtin diagnostic.
    - Git line status.
    For more details see `:h MiniMap.gen_integration`.

- Focus on map window to quickly browse current (source) buffer. Moving inside map window updates cursor position in source window enabling fast and targeted buffer exploration. To focus back, hit `<CR>` to accept current explored position or `<Esc>` to go back to original position. See `:h MiniMap.toggle_focus()`.

- Customizable:
    - Encoding symbols used to display binary information of different resolution (default is 3x2). There are pre-built generators for different basic character families and resolutions. See `:h MiniMap.gen_encode_symbols`.
    - Scrollbar symbols, separate for line and view. Can have any width (even zero, which virtually disables scrollbar).
    - Integrations producing map line highlights.
    - Window options: side (left/right), width, 'winblend', and more.

## Installation

This plugin can be installed as part of 'mini.nvim' library (**recommended**) or as a standalone Git repository.

There are two branches to install from:

- `main` (default, **recommended**) will have latest development version of plugin. All changes since last stable release should be perceived as being in beta testing phase (meaning they already passed alpha-testing and are moderately settled).
- `stable` will be updated only upon releases with code tested during public beta-testing phase in `main` branch.

Here are code snippets for some common installation methods (use only one):

<details>
<summary>With <a href="https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/readmes/mini-deps.md">mini.deps</a></summary>
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Github repo</th>
            <th>Branch</th> <th>Code snippet</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>'mini.nvim' library</td> <td>Main</td> <td rowspan=2><i>Follow recommended 'mini.deps' installation</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>Standalone plugin</td> <td>Main</td> <td><code>add('echasnovski/mini.map')</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td> <td><code>add({ source = 'echasnovski/mini.map', checkout = 'stable' })</code></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</details>

<details>
<summary>With <a href="https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim">folke/lazy.nvim</a></summary>
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Github repo</th>
            <th>Branch</th> <th>Code snippet</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>'mini.nvim' library</td>
            <td>Main</td> <td><code>{ 'echasnovski/mini.nvim', version = false },</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td> <td><code>{ 'echasnovski/mini.nvim', version = '*' },</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>Standalone plugin</td>
            <td>Main</td> <td><code>{ 'echasnovski/mini.map', version = false },</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td> <td><code>{ 'echasnovski/mini.map', version = '*' },</code></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</details>

<details>
<summary>With <a href="https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug">junegunn/vim-plug</a></summary>
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Github repo</th>
            <th>Branch</th> <th>Code snippet</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>'mini.nvim' library</td>
            <td>Main</td> <td><code>Plug 'echasnovski/mini.nvim'</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td> <td><code>Plug 'echasnovski/mini.nvim', { 'branch': 'stable' }</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>Standalone plugin</td> <td>Main</td> <td><code>Plug 'echasnovski/mini.map'</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td> <td><code>Plug 'echasnovski/mini.map', { 'branch': 'stable' }</code></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</details>

<br>

**Important**: don't forget to call `require('mini.map').setup()` to enable its functionality.

**Note**: if you are on Windows, there might be problems with too long file paths (like `error: unable to create file <some file name>: Filename too long`). Try doing one of the following:
- Enable corresponding git global config value: `git config --system core.longpaths true`. Then try to reinstall.
- Install plugin in other place with shorter path.

## Default config

```lua
-- No need to copy this inside `setup()`. Will be used automatically.
{
  -- Highlight integrations (none by default)
  integrations = nil,

  -- Symbols used to display data
  symbols = {
    -- Encode symbols. See `:h MiniMap.config` for specification and
    -- `:h MiniMap.gen_encode_symbols` for pre-built ones.
    -- Default: solid blocks with 3x2 resolution.
    encode = nil,

    -- Scrollbar parts for view and line. Use empty string to disable any.
    scroll_line = '█',
    scroll_view = '┃',
  },

  -- Window options
  window = {
    -- Whether window is focusable in normal way (with `wincmd` or mouse)
    focusable = false,

    -- Side to stick ('left' or 'right')
    side = 'right',

    -- Whether to show count of multiple integration highlights
    show_integration_count = true,

    -- Total width
    width = 10,

    -- Value of 'winblend' option
    winblend = 25,

    -- Z-index
    zindex = 10,
  },
}
```

## Similar plugins

- [wfxr/minimap.vim](https://github.com/wfxr/minimap.vim)
- [dstein64/nvim-scrollview](https://github.com/dstein64/nvim-scrollview)
- [petertriho/nvim-scrollbar](https://github.com/petertriho/nvim-scrollbar)
- [lewis6991/satellite.nvim](https://github.com/lewis6991/satellite.nvim)

Commit message:

feat(map): add `gen_integraion.diff()` for 'mini.diff' hunks

README.md, after:

<img src="https://github.com/echasnovski/media/blob/main/mini.nvim/logo/logo_map.png" style="width: 100%">

<!-- badges: start -->
[![GitHub license](https://badgen.net/github/license/echasnovski/mini.nvim)](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/LICENSE)
<!-- badges: end -->

### Window with buffer text overview, scrollbar, and highlights

See more details in [Features](#features) and [help file](doc/mini-map.txt).

---

⦿ This is a part of [mini.nvim](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim) library. Please use [this link](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/README.md) if you want to mention this module.

⦿ All contributions (issues, pull requests, discussions, etc.) are done inside of 'mini.nvim'.

⦿ See the repository page to learn about common design principles and configuration recipes.

---

If you want to help this project grow but don't know where to start, check out [contributing guides of 'mini.nvim'](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) or leave a Github star for 'mini.nvim' project and/or any its standalone Git repositories.

## Demo

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/24854248/195806215-10e05020-50b7-4bee-9447-ee5af3e971ec.mp4

## Features

- Show and manage special floating window displaying automatically updated overview of current buffer text. Window takes up whole height of Neovim instance and is fixed to a left/right side. Map content is computed by taking all current lines, converting it to binary whitespace/non-whitespace mask, rescaling to appropriate dimensions, and converting back to strings consisting from special encoding symbols. All this is done **very fast** and **asynchronously**.

    See `:h MiniMap.open()`, `:h MiniMap.refresh()`, `:h MiniMap.close()`, `:h MiniMap.toggle()`, `:h MiniMap.toggle_side()`.

    For a general overview and tips, see `:h mini.map-usage`.

- Show scrollbar next to map content. It represents current line and view (top and bottom visible lines). Can be the only thing shown, making map window a "pure scrollbar".

- Highlight map lines representing certain data in current buffer. This is done via extensible set of callables, called integrations. There are pre-built generators for common integrations:
    - Builtin search.
    - Builtin diagnostic.
    - General diff hunks provided by ['mini.diff'](https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/readmes/mini-diff.md).
    - Hunks provided by ['lewis6991/gitsigns.nvim'](https://github.com/lewis6991/gitsigns.nvim).
    For more details see `:h MiniMap.gen_integration`.

- Focus on map window to quickly browse current (source) buffer. Moving inside map window updates cursor position in source window enabling fast and targeted buffer exploration. To focus back, hit `<CR>` to accept current explored position or `<Esc>` to go back to original position. See `:h MiniMap.toggle_focus()`.

- Customizable:
    - Encoding symbols used to display binary information of different resolution (default is 3x2). There are pre-built generators for different basic character families and resolutions. See `:h MiniMap.gen_encode_symbols`.
    - Scrollbar symbols, separate for line and view. Can have any width (even zero, which virtually disables scrollbar).
    - Integrations producing map line highlights.
    - Window options: side (left/right), width, 'winblend', and more.

## Installation

This plugin can be installed as part of 'mini.nvim' library (**recommended**) or as a standalone Git repository.

There are two branches to install from:

- `main` (default, **recommended**) will have latest development version of plugin. All changes since last stable release should be perceived as being in beta testing phase (meaning they already passed alpha-testing and are moderately settled).
- `stable` will be updated only upon releases with code tested during public beta-testing phase in `main` branch.

Here are code snippets for some common installation methods (use only one):

<details>
<summary>With <a href="https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.nvim/blob/main/readmes/mini-deps.md">mini.deps</a></summary>
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Github repo</th>
            <th>Branch</th> <th>Code snippet</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>'mini.nvim' library</td> <td>Main</td> <td rowspan=2><i>Follow recommended 'mini.deps' installation</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>Standalone plugin</td> <td>Main</td> <td><code>add('echasnovski/mini.map')</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td> <td><code>add({ source = 'echasnovski/mini.map', checkout = 'stable' })</code></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</details>

<details>
<summary>With <a href="https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim">folke/lazy.nvim</a></summary>
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Github repo</th>
            <th>Branch</th> <th>Code snippet</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>'mini.nvim' library</td>
            <td>Main</td> <td><code>{ 'echasnovski/mini.nvim', version = false },</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td> <td><code>{ 'echasnovski/mini.nvim', version = '*' },</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>Standalone plugin</td>
            <td>Main</td> <td><code>{ 'echasnovski/mini.map', version = false },</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td> <td><code>{ 'echasnovski/mini.map', version = '*' },</code></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</details>

<details>
<summary>With <a href="https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug">junegunn/vim-plug</a></summary>
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Github repo</th>
            <th>Branch</th> <th>Code snippet</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>'mini.nvim' library</td>
            <td>Main</td> <td><code>Plug 'echasnovski/mini.nvim'</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td> <td><code>Plug 'echasnovski/mini.nvim', { 'branch': 'stable' }</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=2>Standalone plugin</td> <td>Main</td> <td><code>Plug 'echasnovski/mini.map'</code></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Stable</td> <td><code>Plug 'echasnovski/mini.map', { 'branch': 'stable' }</code></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
</details>

<br>

**Important**: don't forget to call `require('mini.map').setup()` to enable its functionality.

**Note**: if you are on Windows, there might be problems with too long file paths (like `error: unable to create file <some file name>: Filename too long`). Try doing one of the following:
- Enable corresponding git global config value: `git config --system core.longpaths true`. Then try to reinstall.
- Install plugin in other place with shorter path.

## Default config

```lua
-- No need to copy this inside `setup()`. Will be used automatically.
{
  -- Highlight integrations (none by default)
  integrations = nil,

  -- Symbols used to display data
  symbols = {
    -- Encode symbols. See `:h MiniMap.config` for specification and
    -- `:h MiniMap.gen_encode_symbols` for pre-built ones.
    -- Default: solid blocks with 3x2 resolution.
    encode = nil,

    -- Scrollbar parts for view and line. Use empty string to disable any.
    scroll_line = '█',
    scroll_view = '┃',
  },

  -- Window options
  window = {
    -- Whether window is focusable in normal way (with `wincmd` or mouse)
    focusable = false,

    -- Side to stick ('left' or 'right')
    side = 'right',

    -- Whether to show count of multiple integration highlights
    show_integration_count = true,

    -- Total width
    width = 10,

    -- Value of 'winblend' option
    winblend = 25,

    -- Z-index
    zindex = 10,
  },
}
```

## Similar plugins

- [wfxr/minimap.vim](https://github.com/wfxr/minimap.vim)
- [dstein64/nvim-scrollview](https://github.com/dstein64/nvim-scrollview)
- [petertriho/nvim-scrollbar](https://github.com/petertriho/nvim-scrollbar)
- [lewis6991/satellite.nvim](https://github.com/lewis6991/satellite.nvim)
